---
layout: publication-list
category: "In depth articles"
title:  "Recommendations for Securing a Server Connected to Internet"
menutitle: "Recommendations for Securing a Server Connected to Internet"
logo:
date:  2017-11-06 00:00:00 +0100
short: "Security measures"
categories: securing
toc: true
ref: recommendations4securingserverconnectedinternet
lang: fr
hidden: true
---
## In brief
Security measures are behavioural, organisational or technical measures seeking to ensure the [confidentiality]({% link _knowhow/glossary/Confidentiality.markdown %}), [integrity]({% link _knowhow/glossary/Integrity.markdown %}) and [availability]({% link _knowhow/glossary/Availability.markdown %}) of an [asset]({% link _knowhow/glossary/Assets.markdown %}). Security measures seek to reduce the [vulnerabilities]({% link _knowhow/glossary/Vulnerabilities.markdown %}) exploited by [threats]({% link _knowhow/glossary/Threat.markdown %}) and thereby lower the [impacts.]({% link _knowhow/glossary/Impact.markdown %}) They are defined during the risk treatment phase in the [risk management process]({% link _knowhow/bestpractices/RiskManagement.markdown %}).

## Security measures

1. It is strongly recommended to [regularly update]({% link _knowhow/glossary/Patches.markdown %}) the **operating system** as well as the server applications. The exploitation of these [technical vulnerabilities]({% link _knowhow/glossary/Vulnerabilities.markdown %}#technical-vulnerabilities) may cause the corruption of the server operation or the theft or [destruction of files]({% link _knowhow/glossary/DataLoss.markdown %}), and potentially the hijacking of data flows. Draft and enforce a Sectoral policy
on System development and maintenance – [Management of technical vulnerabilities]({% link _knowhow/cisoapproach/SecurityPolicy-SystemDevelopmentAndMaintenance.markdown %}#managing-technical-vulnerabilities}).
2. It is strongly recommended to restrict the functionality of the server to this sole task and not to host any other application on the same virtual or physical server.
3. It is strongly recommended to segment the network and place the server in a **DMZ**. Access to the server should therefore come through a [firewall]({% link _knowhow/glossary/Firewall.markdown %}) and ideally via an [IDS/IPS]({% link _knowhow/glossary/IDS-IPS.markdown %}). Draft and enforce a Sectoral policy on access control – [External connections]({% link _knowhow/cisoapproach/SecurityPolicy-AccessControl.markdown %}#external-connections) and [Separation of networks]({% link _knowhow/cisoapproach/SecurityPolicy-AccessControl.markdown %}#separation-of-networks).
4. It is strongly recommended to incorporate the server into the **backup plan**. Draft and enforce a sectoral policy on operational and telecommunication management. Draft and enforce a sectoral policy relating to Operational and communications aspects – [Data backup]({% link _knowhow/glossary/DataBackups.markdown %})
5. It is strongly recommended to implement **strong [authentication]({% link _knowhow/glossary/Authentication.markdown %})**  for any access to the entity from the exterior. Draft and enforce a sectoral policy on access control – [Access control policy]({% link _knowhow/cisoapproach/SecurityPolicy-SecurityPolicy.markdown %}) and [Access rights management]({% link _knowhow/cisoapproach/SecurityPolicy-AccessControl.markdown %}#access-rights-management) and [Connection procedures]({% link _knowhow/cisoapproach/SecurityPolicy-AccessControl.markdown %}#connection-procedures) and [External connections]({% link _knowhow/cisoapproach/SecurityPolicy-AccessControl.markdown %}#external-connections)
6. It is recommended to impose a certain **password strength** for users, as well as for the administrator account. Draft and enforce a Sectoral policy on access control – [Password management]({% link _knowhow/cisoapproach/SecurityPolicy-AccessControl.markdown %}#password-management)
7. It is strongly recommended to introduce a logging system if one is not in place by default. Furthermore, it is clearly important to be able to assess the content of the log files. Because of this, the use of aggregation and analysis tools, and even alert tools, for the log file is very useful. This logging should comply with data privacy laws – and laws on workplace monitoring (see CNPD site).
8. It is strongly recommended to protect this server against [malicious software]({% link _knowhow/glossary/MaliciousCodes.markdown %}) (malware). [Anti-virus]({% link _knowhow/glossary/AntiVirus.markdown %}) software should be regularly updated in order to recognise and remove the latest malicious code. Draft and enforce a Sectoral policy on Operational and communications aspects – [Protection against malware]({% link _knowhow/cisoapproach/SecurityPolicy-OperationalAndCommunicationAspects.markdown %}#protection-against-malware).
9. For servers [classified]({% link _knowhow/cisoapproach/SecurityPolicy-Classification.markdown %}) as important or vital, it is worth signing a **maintenance agreement** with an intervention period to suit the server classification level. (Draft and enforce a Sectoral policy on Physical and environmental security – [Maintenance]({% link _knowhow/cisoapproach/SecurityPolicy-PhysicalAndEnvironmentalSecurity.markdown %}#maintenance)).
10. For servers [classified]({% link _knowhow/cisoapproach/SecurityPolicy-Classification.markdown %}) as important or vital, it is strongly recommended to use an uninterruptible power supply to guarantee electrical security. Draft and enforce a Sectoral policy on Physical and environmental security – [Electrical equipment safety]({% link _knowhow/cisoapproach/SecurityPolicy-PhysicalAndEnvironmentalSecurity.markdown %}#electrical-equipment-safety)
11. It is strongly recommended to **secure physical access to the server** only to people who hold access rights. Draft and enforce a Sectoral policy on Physical and environmental security – [Physical security perimeter]({% link _knowhow/cisoapproach/SecurityPolicy-PhysicalAndEnvironmentalSecurity.markdown %}#physical-security-perimeter) and [Rules within the perimeter]({% link _knowhow/cisoapproach/SecurityPolicy-PhysicalAndEnvironmentalSecurity.markdown %}#rules-within-the-perimeter)
12. In the event of disposal of the server, it is strongly recommended to physically destroy the hard disks (using crushers or degausser). Draft and enforce a Sectoral policy on Physical and environmental security – [Disposal and reuse of equipment]({% link _knowhow/cisoapproach/SecurityPolicy-PhysicalAndEnvironmentalSecurity.markdown %}#disposal-and-reuse-of-equipment)
13. Document the most significant actions performed on the server (backup, shutdown, start-up, etc). Draft and enforce a sectoral policy on Operational aspects and communications – [Documented procedures]({% link _knowhow/cisoapproach/SecurityPolicy-OperationalAndCommunicationAspects.markdown %}#documentation-of-procedures)
